---
layout: post
title:  "GoDaddy Breach - Everything you need to know"
author: adnan
categories: [ cybersecurity, ]
image: assets/images/Godaddy.png
---


Web hosting provider GoDaddy recently disclosed a multi-year(possibly since 2020) security breach, which enabled attackers to install malware and steal source code related to some of its services. The company attributed the attack to a "sophisticated and organized group targeting hosting services."

## How it was detected?

According to the company, it received several customer complaints in December 2022 about their websites getting redirected to malicious sites. It later found out that an unauthorized third party had gained access to servers hosted in its cPanel environment and installed malware that caused the intermittent redirection of customer websites.

GoDaddy says the ultimate objective of the intrusion was to "infect websites and servers with malware for phishing campaigns, malware distribution, and other malicious activities." The company also revealed that the breach was part of a broader campaign targeting other hosting companies worldwide over the years.

## Is this is the first one?

The incident is connected to two other security breaches that GoDaddy experienced in March 2020 and November 2021. In the 2020 breach, the hosting company alerted 28,000 customers that an attacker had used their web hosting account credentials to connect to their hosting account via SSH. In the 2021 breach, a rogue actor used a compromised password to access a provisioning system in GoDaddy's legacy code base for Managed WordPress, affecting approximately 1.2 million active and inactive MWP customers across multiple GoDaddy brands.

## Current situation?

GoDaddy is now working with external cybersecurity forensics experts and law enforcement agencies worldwide to investigate the root cause of the breach. The company is also taking steps to strengthen its security measures and protect its customers' data.

## Conclusion

The GoDaddy breach is a reminder of the importance of regularly reviewing and updating cybersecurity practices to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive data. Customers should also be vigilant about monitoring their accounts for any suspicious activity and changing their passwords regularly.

In conclusion, the GoDaddy security breach is a concerning incident that has compromised the security of millions of customers. The company's ongoing investigation into the incident will provide valuable insights into how the attackers were able to breach the system and how the company can prevent similar incidents from happening in the future. In the meantime, customers are advised to take extra precautions to protect their data and monitor their accounts for any signs of unauthorized access.

## About us
Snapsec is a team of security experts specialized in providing pentesting and other security services to secure your online assets. We have a specialized testing methodology which ensures indepth testing of your business logic and other latest vulnerabilities.

If you are looking for a team which values your security and ensures that you are fully secure against online security threats, feel free to get in touch with us #support@snapsec.co
