# SSRF

Proposed By : Imran
: 5
Progress: Not started
Refrence: https://github.com/Snap-sec/blog/blob/gh-pages/_posts/%5BSE-R%5D-2022-05-15-Security-Explained-SSRF.md
Stage: 📝 Written

## Introduction

Server-side request forgery is a web security flaw that empowers an attacker to induce the server-side application to initiate requests towards an unintended destination.

During a standard SSRF attack, the attacker could prompt the server to establish a connection with services restricted to internal use within the organization's infrastructure. Alternatively, they might coerce the server into linking with arbitrary external systems, potentially leading to the disclosure of sensitive information, such as authorization credentials.

## Impact of SSRF

1. **Accessing Cloud Metadata:**
    
     Unauthorized access to cloud metadata can expose sensitive information about the server's configuration, potentially aiding further attacks. This is especially critical in cloud environments where metadata might include credentials and other sensitive details.
    
2. **Accessing Internal Services:**
    
    Gaining access to internal services allows the attacker to interact with resources that are not intended to be exposed to the public. This could include databases, internal APIs, or other systems holding confidential information.
    
3. **Port Scanning on Internal or External Hosts:**
    
    An attacker can use SSRF to perform port scanning on internal or external hosts. This reconnaissance technique helps identify open ports and services, providing valuable information for planning further attacks or exploiting known vulnerabilities.
    
4. **Remote Code Execution (RCE):**
    
    In some cases, SSRF can lead to RCE, allowing the attacker to execute arbitrary code on the server. This is one of the most severe consequences, as it grants the attacker control over the compromised system, potentially leading to data theft, system manipulation, or further exploitation.
    

It's important to note that the impact of the SSRF Vulnerability depends on the specific context of the SSRF vulnerability and the security measures in place on the targeted system.

## Understanding SSRF with an Example

Let’s start with this quick example of PHP code

```php
<?php
$url = $_GET['url'];
$data = file_get_contents($url);
echo $data;
?>
```

**Explanation:**

In this PHP snippet, the code extracts a URL provided by the user from the query parameters. Subsequently, it directly utilizes the variable **`$url`** as an input for the **`file_get_contents()`** function, allowing the retrieval of content from the specified URL. Following the content retrieval, the code sends it back as a response.

**Why it's vulnerable:**

This code takes a URL from the user input through the `$_GET` parameter and directly uses it in the `file_get_contents` function. This lack of input validation allows an attacker to manipulate the URL and potentially make requests to internal or sensitive resources.

**How it can be exploitable:**
An attacker can manipulate the `url` parameter to make the server request internal resources or even external systems. For example, they might provide a URL that points to an internal file on local file system using [file://](file://) protocol, leading to unauthorized access. Additionally, if the server is part of a cloud environment, an attacker could exploit SSRF to access cloud metadata, potentially obtaining sensitive information such as credentials.

## Where do we look for SSRF vulnerabilities:

Indeed, as a general rule, caution should be exercised in any part of a web application that processes or utilizes user-provided URLs, as these areas can be potential targets for SSRF exploits. But here are some interesting locations that should be your main focus when it comes to finding ssrfs.

1. **URL Parameters:** User-supplied URLs used in requests can be a common source of SSRF vulnerabilities.
2. **PDF Generators:** Some PDF generation processes may involve external resources, presenting an opportunity for SSRF.
3. **Image Processing:** Image libraries that fetch remote images based on user input can introduce SSRF risks.
4. **File Uploads and Processing:** File upload functionalities that accept URLs or process user-provided files may be susceptible to SSRF.
5. **Third-Party Integration Features or Endpoints:** Any integration with external services that handles URLs should be thoroughly reviewed for potential SSRF vulnerabilities.
6. **Web Hooks:** When web hooks involve user-provided URLs, it's important to ensure they are properly validated to prevent SSRF.
7. **Common Parameters:** The provided list of parameters includes those commonly associated with handling URLs or directing requests. When auditing a web application for SSRF vulnerabilities, pay particular attention to the following parameters:

> "dest", "redirect", "uri", "path", "continue", "url", "window", "next", "data", "reference", "site", "html", "val", "validate", "domain", "callback", "return", "page", "feed", "host", "port", "to", "out", "view", "dir", "show", "navigation", "open”
> 

## How to Hunt for SSRF Vulnerabilities:

Before delving into the intricacies of SSRF attacks with comprehensive details, I'd like to highlight two insightful tweets from exceptionally skilled hackers that shed light on Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF).

[Corben Leo on Twitter / X](https://twitter.com/hacker_/status/1694554700555981176)

[Justin Gardner on Twitter / X](https://twitter.com/Rhynorater/status/1689400476452679682)

1. **Exploring Alternative URL Schemes**
    
    In your quest for SSRF vulnerabilities, it is crucial to diversify your approach to URL schemes. Consider testing various protocols such as file://, netdoc://, dict://, gopher://, jar://, ldap://, and others. By exploring different schemes, you may uncover cases where one schema is blocked, while others present exploitable opportunities due to oversight by developers.
    
2. **Uncovering Cloud Metadata Leaks**
    
    When testing SSRF testing, it's essential to indentify if the vulnerable server is running on any cloud service product (AWS or GCP) if yes, you should then look for the potential impact of metadata leak. Focus on specific cloud endpoints and attempt to access sensitive information. An illustrative example involves trying to fetch data from the metadata server, like accessing [http://instance-data](http://instance-data/) on AWS. Such exploration helps identify vulnerabilities that may be overlooked by developers.
    
    You can use the following url to access the instance metadata based on the targets cloud provider:
    
    1. **Amazon Web Services (AWS):**
        - http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/
        - http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data/
    2. **Microsoft Azure:**
        - http://169.254.169.254/metadata/instance?api-version=2021-04-01
        - http://169.254.169.254/metadata/instance/compute?api-version=2021-04-01
        - http://169.254.169.254/metadata/instance/network?api-version=2021-04-01
    3. **Google Cloud Platform (GCP):**
        - http://metadata.google.internal/computeMetadata/v1/
        - http://metadata.google.internal/computeMetadata/v1/instance/
    
3. **IP Address Representation Tricks**
    
    While experimenting with alternative IP address representations Test various formats, including octal, decimal, and hexadecimal. Exploring different representations is vital in understanding the intricacies of SSRF vulnerabilities, ensuring comprehensive testing that encompasses the nuances of IP address manipulation.
    
    For example the IP adress: 127.0.0.1 can be represented in these following ways:
    
    1. Decimal: `127.0.0.1`
    2. Octal: `0177.0.0.1`
    3. Dotted Quad: `127.0.1`
    4. Dotted Quad with Leading Zeros: `127.0.0.001`
    5. Dotted Quad with Leading Zeros in Octal: `0177.0.0.001`
    6. Dotted Quad with Leading Zeros in Hexadecimal: `0x7F.0.0.001`
    7. Dotted Quad with Trailing Zeros: `127.0.0.001`
    8. Dotted Quad with All Zeros: `127.0.0.0`
    9. Dotted Quad with All Ones: `127.255.255.255`
    10. Dotted Quad with Repeated Digits: `127.127.127.127`
    11. Dotted Quad with Mixed Bases: `0177.0x0.0.01`

1. **Circumventing IP Limitations on AWS**
    
     In the realm of SSRF testing, adaptability is key. When faced with restrictions on direct access to 169.254.169.254, explore alternative avenues. On AWS, consider accessing "instance-data" through [http://instance-data](http://instance-data/) as an alternative. This approach demonstrates the importance of creative exploration and adaptability in circumventing limitations imposed on addressing the metadata server.
    
2. **Mastering URL Structure for SSRF**
    
    Even when lacking control over the complete URL, understanding characters like @, ?, #, and ; is essential. By unraveling the nuances of URL structure manipulation, you empower yourself to exploit SSRF vulnerabilities effectively, transcending the constraints imposed by restricted URL inputs.
    
3. **Chaining Vulnerabilities with Open Redirects**
    
    When SSRF requests are confined to a specific domain, explore the potential of redirection techniques. Test the application's response to redirects, exploiting vulnerabilities by strategically navigating through the app's redirect functionality.
    
    For instance, suppose you've identified an SSRF vulnerability at `https://vulnerable-app.com/fetch?url=<user-controlled-input>`. However, the scope of `<user-controlled-input>` is limited to `vulnerable-app.com`. Simultaneously, you've discovered an open redirect vulnerability at `https://vulnerable-app.com/redirect?to=<attacker-controlled-input>`.
    
    To leverage these vulnerabilities and access an internal host, such as `127.0.0.1`, the final exploit would take the following form:
    
    `https://vulnerable-app.com/fetch?url=https%3A%2F%2Fvulnerable-app.com%2Fredirect%3Fto%3Dhttp%3A%2F%2F127.0.0.1`
    
4. **Exploring Redirect Status Codes**
    
    Dive into the realm of SSRF by experimenting with diverse redirect status codes (301, 302, 303, 307, 308, etc.). Redirect requests to sensitive locations, observing the distinct behaviors triggered by different HTTP redirect codes. This exploration allows you to identify potential SSRF vulnerabilities by manipulating responses to various redirect scenarios.
    
5. **Overcoming Regex Validation Limitations**
    
    Test the resilience of regex patterns by deliberately inserting characters to evaluate their effectiveness. 
    
    For instance, test for weak regexes by checking if the application enforces domain restrictions, such as allowing only "[allowedDomain.com](http://alloweddomain.com/)." Experiment with variations like "[allowedDomain.evil.com](http://alloweddomain.evil.com/)" to determine if the regex validation can be bypassed.
    
6. **DNS Rebinding Techniques**
    
    DNS rebinding is a technique that can be used in the context of SSRF (Server-Side Request Forgery) attacks. The goal of DNS rebinding is to bypass security mechanisms that prevent an attacker from making requests to internal resources.
    
    Here's a simplified explanation of how DNS rebinding works in the context of SSRF:
    
    1. **Initial SSRF Request:**
        - An attacker triggers an SSRF request, attempting to access an internal resource, for example, http://internal-server/secret-data.
    2. **DNS Resolution:**
        - Initially, the target server might resolve the domain name (internal-server) to the external IP address of the attacker-controlled server.
    3. **Rebinding DNS:**
        - After the initial resolution, the attacker changes the DNS mapping for the domain (internal-server) to point to the IP address of the internal resource (e.g., 192.168.1.10).
    4. **Second SSRF Request:**
        - The attacker initiates a second SSRF request to the same URL (http://internal-server/secret-data).
    5. **Access to Internal Resource:**
        - Due to DNS rebinding, the domain (internal-server) now resolves to the internal IP address, allowing the attacker to successfully access the internal resource, despite the initial security measures.
    
    In summary, DNS rebinding involves manipulating DNS resolution to redirect a domain from an external IP address to an internal IP address. This allows an attacker to trick the target server into making subsequent SSRF requests to internal resources, bypassing restrictions that may have been in place.
    

## Conclusion

In the realm of web security, Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) presents a multifaceted threat with nuanced and severe implications. Beyond the conventional risks associated with unauthorized access to internal resources and services, SSRF manifests profound impacts, including the potential extraction of sensitive cloud metadata, reconnaissance through port scanning, and the gravitas of remote code execution. The ability to manipulate URL structures, alternative representation techniques for IP addresses, and the exploitation of redirection functionalities not only underscore the sophistication of SSRF attacks but also accentuate the critical importance of meticulous input validation and comprehensive security measures. DNS rebinding emerges as a potent tool within the SSRF arsenal, enabling attackers to subvert conventional domain restrictions and redirect requests to internal resources. The technical intricacies of SSRF, elucidated in this discourse, necessitate a heightened awareness among cybersecurity practitioners, demanding continual vigilance, and the implementation of advanced defensive strategies to mitigate the pervasive and evolving threat landscape associated with SSRF vulnerabilities.